# Windows Console Documentation

Welcome to the Windows Console documentation repo. The published articles are generated from the markdown stored in this repo and published at [Windows Console documentation](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows/console/).

For code issues related to the Windows Console, Windows Terminal, and related command-line and terminal tooling products acquired with Windows, from the Windows Store, or other sources like GitHub, please check out the [microsoft/terminal](https://github.com/microsoft/terminal) repository.

## Metadata

Each content page in this repo requires some metadata expressed as [YAML](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/YAML), stored at the top of each doc between '---' markers. For example:

```yaml
---
title: About Consoles
description: Consoles provide high-level support for simple character-mode applications that interact with the user by using functions that read from standard input and write to standard output or standard error.
author: miniksa
ms.author: miniksa
ms.assetid: 39204f0e-b0b8-4f92-af8e-e146ac06c454
ms.topic: article
---

## About Consoles

Consoles provide high-level support for ...
```

Notes on metadata:

* author: Main article author
* ms.author: Additional co-authors / contributors / editors
* ms.assetid: UUID used by BI for reporting and analysis. Generated by CAPS for existing content, auto-generated by OPS in future
* ms.topic: One of [article | get-started-article | hero-article | hub-page | landing-page | non-content | reference | search] (see [this Excel workbook](https://microsoft.sharepoint.com/teams/STBCSI/Insights/_layouts/15/WopiFrame.aspx?sourcedoc=%7b7A321BF1-0611-4184-84DA-A0E964C435FA%7d&file=WEDCS_MasterList_CSIValues.xlsx&action=default&IsList=1&ListId=%7b46B17C8A-CD7E-47ED-A1B6-F2B654B55E2B%7d&ListItemId=969) for current valid values).

While some metadata is stored per file (like above), common metadata required by all files within a documentation set (docset) is stored in the `docfx.json` file in the root of the `docs` folder. For example:

```json
"build": {
  #...
  "fileMetadata": {
    "ms.prod": { "/console/**.yml": "windows"},
    "ms.technology": { "/console/**.yml": "desktop"},
    "manager": {"/console/**.yml": "miniksa"}
  }
}
```

The values for `ms.prod` and `ms.technology` are standard for Win32 APIs and desktop technology, as defined in the Excel workbook above. Custom values can be registered if required.
